# Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance

by : Robert M. Pirsig

## Chapter One

A father and son (Chris) are riding through the marsh on a motorcycle as the father fondly remembers his childhood from the marsh. He talks about the freedom of being on a motorcycle versus being in a car and how much more immersed you are in everything around you this way.

He talks about how him and his wife would find alternative paths, not following main roads. If heading out of town, "You go out and then start jogging north, then east, then north again, and soon you are on a secondary route that only the local people use." (page 7)

He talks with a longing for how things should operate - at a slow pace. not the hustle and bustle of what we have become accustomed to. Instead, more like the Chautauquas. Rather than being concernred with what is new, be concerned with what is best.

They make a pitstop, and we find out that they are riding with John and Sylvia a married couple. There seems to be minor bits on which the couple disagrees. The narrorator talks about how John likes to have someone else maintain his motorcycle, and how this could be related. Whenever they talk about it, John seems to trail off, not wanting to dive into the subject. Sylvia and John agree on the maintenace matter, though. The maintenace subject seems to carry over into other areas of life, like a leaky faucet. They just deal with it. Instead of learning to fix to the problem, they accept it as a way of their life, stress included.

It seems to John and Sylvia that technology is dehumanizing and alien. The narrorator references Buddah, the Godhead, and how he resides comfortably in both technology and on top of the mountain. To dismiss that is demeaning to one's self. 

They exit the marshes. They enter the countryside where it is green; there is no smoke.
